
To implement more stability in parameter changes (especially around staking), Vega uses
the concepts of epochs. An epoch is a time period (initially 24 hours, but changeable
via governance vote) during which changes can be annopunced, but will not be executed
until the next epoch (with some rare exceptions).

Episode Transition:

The trigger to start a new episode is blocktime. To this end, there is a
defined time when an epoch ends; the first block after the block that
exceeds this time is the last block of its epoch.

The length of an epoch is a system parameter. To make the chain understandable
without having to trace all system parameters, the time an epoch ends is added
to its first block. This also means that the block validity check needs to verify 
that deadline.

Every epoch also has a unique identiyer (i.e., a sequential number), which is also 
added to the first block of the new epoch.

Rationale: Using the blocks after the deadline makes it easy to have a common agreement
on which block starts a new epoch without any guesswork on network performance. Using
the block one after means that every epoch has a defined last block, and it is possible
to put some information needed to terminate an epoch cleanly/prepare the
next epoch into that block.

Options: We could make it a system parameter how many blocks after the deadline the epoch starts
 if we need more space to reconfigure/close an epoch. This can be added through a software update
 at a later point if needed.

Fringe cases: 
 If the epoch-time is too short, then it is possible to have several epochs starting
 at the same time (say, we have 5 second epochs, and one block takes 20 socineds, thus  pushing the
 blocktime past several deadlines. While this really shouldn't happen, it can be resolved by the 
 last epoch winning. This would cause issues with delay factors (e.g., a va;idator staying on for
 another 5 epochs after loosing delegation), but as it indicates that something already is very
 wrong this should not be an issue. 

 If we have an integer overflow of the epoch number, nothing overly bad should happen; even
 if we'd use normal unsigned int, with an expected epoch duration of 24h, we're all dead when 
 this happens. It also shouldn't have any real effect, though (eventually) it may make sense 
 to catch the overflow in the code.
 
 While hopefully not an issue with golang anymore, ne thing to watch out for is
 the year 2038 problem; this is a bit unrelated, but can easily hit anything that
 works on a second-basis.

Parameter changes
 All parameters that are changed through a governance vote are valid starting the 
 episode following the one the block is in that finalized the vote.

Parameters needed at this point are
	Epoch length (in seconds)
	



(Un)delegation

A delegator can lock a token in the smart contract, which is then available for
staking (@Danny to provide details where necessary). Any locked and undelegated
stake can be delegated at any time by putting a delegation-message on the chain.
However, the delegation only becomes valid towards the next epoch, though it can
be undone through undelegate.

To avoid fragmentation or spam, there is a system parameter "Minimum delegateable stake"
that defines the smallest unit of (fractions of) tokens that can be used for delegation.

As validators (will) have an optimum amount of stake they don't want to exceed, 
There are three ways a delegator can undelegate:

- Undelegate towards the end of the eposide
	The action is announced in the next available block, but the delegator keeps
	the delegation alive till the last block of the epoch. The delegator can then
	re-delegate the stake, which then be valid once the next epoch starts.
	The delegator cannot move the tokens before the epoch ends, they remain locked.
-Undelegate now
	The action can be announced at any time and is executed immediatelly following the block
	it is announced in. However, the stake is still counted as delegated to the validator until
	the last block of the epoch, though the delegator rewards are not paied to the delegator, but
	into an appropriate vega pool (the insurance pool, for example). The tokens are
	released though, and the delegator can transfer their tokens in the smart contract.

	Rationale: This allows a delegator to sell their tokens in a rush, without requiring
	any interaction between the smart contract and the details of the delegation system.
	This also allows the delegator to change their mind about a delegation before it is
	activated.
  
-Undelegate in anger
	This action is announced at any time and is executed immediately following the block it
	is announced in. The delegator looses the delegated stake and the income with it, as well
	as their voting weight. As this is not required for first mainnet, and involves more subtleties
	(weights need to be recalculated on the fly, there may be a mixture of normal undelegated
	and undelegate in anger, ...), this feature does not need to be implemented right away for
	Mainnet alpha.
	
	Rationale: A validator is found to have done something outrageous, and needs to be removed
	right away. 

Validator commands
	Change wanted stake: Define a new parameter of wanted_stake[validator], valid at the epoch
	following the one in which the command is put into a block.

Fringe Cases:
	A delegator can delegate some stake, and immediatelly undelegate it before the next
	epoch starts. This is fine with us.
	If the value of 'minimum_delegateable_stake' changes in a bad way, stakers might be stuck with
	some fraction they can't modify anymore. To this end, the undelegate commands also should
	support a parameter "all".

	With this setup, a delegator can use a constant delegation/undelegate-now to spam the network.	

	If several delegators change the delegation within the same block, some of them may not be allowed to 
	execute (as this would exceed the maximum stake the validator wants). To save ressources, the
	block creator has the responsibility to filter out these transactions.

Parameters: minimum_delegatable_stake
	    max_wanted_stake[Validator]	

Commands:
	delegate(delegator_ID, validator_ID, amount/'all')
	  delegate amount(all) undelegated stake form delegator_ID to validator_ID, 
		provided there is sufficient undelegated stake available and the value would
		not exceed max_wanted_stake.
	undelegate(delegator_ID, validator_ID, amount/'all')
	undelegate_now(delegator_ID, validator_ID, amount/'all)
	
	change max_wanted_stake(Validator_ID)




General Fringe Cases:

Due to the various parameters, we have a setting where an inconsistent view of the settings
can cause trouble - if one validator things a transaction is valid and another one does not, 
this disagreement could stop the entire blockchain.
While this should not happen, it can. One example would be that different implementations use
slightly different rounding rules, or even processors with different float units comming to 
different results. 
My proposal here is a bit of a hack; if t+1 (or f+1 in tendermint speak) blocks in a row get 
rejected due to invalid proposals with anything that could be explained through paramerer 
inconsistencies, the chain goes into a backup mode where parameter changes are only allowd 
every n-1 th block, where n is the number of validators (thus, every delegation-related 
transaction needs ot wait in mempool until the next block-number is divisible by n-1; using n-1 
assures that the responsibility for these blocks still rotates between the validators). 
Thus, even if the inconsistency blocks delegation related commands, the primary operation of 
the chain can still go on. 

In mainnet alpha this is sufficient as the chain dies relatively quickly anyhow. In later
versions, we'd need a simple resync protocol (e.g., all validators put on the block what
they think the parameters are; the majority of the first n-t blocks wins).


